# t3.h


## Classes

- t3AllocProp
- t3DebugTrace
- t3GetGlobalSymbols
- t3GetNamedArg
- t3GetNamedArgList
- t3GetStackTrace
- t3GetVMBanner
- t3GetVMID
- t3GetVMPreinitMode
- t3GetVMVsn
- t3RunGC
- t3SetSay


## Functions


### `t3AllocProp`

Defined in t3.h, line 146

Allocate a new property. Returns a new property not yet used anywhere in the program. Note that property ID's are a somewhat limited resource - only approximately 65,000 total are available, including all of the properties that the program defines statically.


### `t3DebugTrace(mode, ...)`

Defined in t3.h, line 99

Debugger trace operations. This provides access to the interactive debugger subsystem, if the VM is running under a debugger. The 'mode' argument determines what the function does and what the additional arguments, if any, are for:


### `t3GetGlobalSymbols(which?)`

Defined in t3.h, line 137

Get the global symbol table or the global macro table.


### `t3GetNamedArg(name, defval?)`

Defined in t3.h, line 181

Get a named argument. This searches for the specified named argument, and returns the value of the argument if it's defined.


### `t3GetNamedArgList`

Defined in t3.h, line 188

Get a list of all named arguments currently in effect. This returns a list of strings, where each string is the name of a named argument that's currently active.


### `t3GetStackTrace(level?, flags?)`

Defined in t3.h, line 166

Get a stack trace. This returns a list of T3StackInfo objects. Each object represents a nesting level in the call stack. The first element in the list represents the currently active level (i.e., the level that called this function), the second element represents the caller of the first element, and so on.


### `t3GetVMBanner`

Defined in t3.h, line 64

Get the VM banner string. This returns a string with the name of the VM, the version number, and a copyright string, in a format suitable for displaying to the user to identify the VM executable.


### `t3GetVMID`

Defined in t3.h, line 57

Get the VM identifier string. This returns the version number as a string, as in '3.0.10'.


### `t3GetVMPreinitMode`

Defined in t3.h, line 71

Get the preinitialization mode flag. This returns true if the VM is running as part of the compiler's pre-initialization phase, nil if it's running as a normal interpreter.


### `t3GetVMVsn`

Defined in t3.h, line 51

Get the VM version number. Returns the version number as an integer value, with the major version in the high-order 16 bits, the minor version number in the next 8 bits, and the patch number ("point release" number) in the low-order 8 bits. For example, version 3.0.10 is encoded as 0x0003000A.


### `t3RunGC`

Defined in t3.h, line 28

Explicitly run garbage collection.


### `t3SetSay(val)`

Defined in t3.h, line 42

Set the default output function or method. The return value is the old function pointer or method, depending on which one is being set with this call. (If 'val' is a function pointer, the return value will be the old function; if 'val' is a property ID, the return value is the old method.)
